Now that we learned about props,
we're basically done with our first custom component.
This expense item component is now reusable
and we can use this props concept to configure it
differently every time that we're using it.
So that the four times we're using ExpenseItem here
we're also getting a different output four times.
I also just wanna emphasize again,
that here we are indeed setting the values
for the props dynamically
with this single curly brace syntax
but we could also just have a hard coded value
like this here if that is what we needed.
So props are not limited to dynamically set values.
We can do that,
but we don't have to.
The main idea behind props is always the same though.
We wanna make sure that we can pass data into our components
to make them configurable and reusable.
Now let's continue working on that expense item component
and let's continue working on that date.
Because at the moment this is clearly not too pretty,
not too human readable.
And instead of showing it like this,
I instead wanna have this calender like look
which you see here in this preview.
I wanna have my date look like that.
And therefore of course we need to change that HTML code,
that JSX code
and I'm using these terms interchangeably as well.
We need to change that which is responsible
for outputting that date.
And here to build such a calender look,
we could say that inside of that main div
which should hold the overall date element,
we wanna have free individual divs like this,
where the top most div is responsible
for outputting the month.
The middle div is responsible for outputting the year
and the bottom div then shows the date.
That's something we could do.
And, of course, for that we wanna extract month, year
and day from the incoming date.
So from that date prop which we're setting.
For that here for the month,
we can output a value dynamically and access props.date,
and now what?
How can we now output the month here?
Well, we can use a built-in method which is
accessible on all date objects in JavaScript.
We can call the toLocaleString method.
Now this is not a React specific method.
You can Google for JS toLocaleString
to find an official article on this method.
And this method simply helps you with outputting dates
in human readable formats.
And you can simply call it and then pass
in two arguments where the first argument
is basically the language and here I'll use en-US
to go with English.
And then the second argument is an object
where you configure how specifically
that date should be formatted.
And here we got different options
where you can find more details in that article
which you can find.
Here you can learn more about the various ways
of configuring this and using this.
And here we can set month to long for example.
That's one of the provided options
or one of the supported options.
And if we do that and save this,
we see that August and March and June are being output here.
So that we got a human readable way
of outputting that month.
Now, doing that all in line here
in that JSX code clearly works.
As I mentioned earlier,
when I introduced this syntax,
you can have expressions like this between the curly braces
but it is considered a better practice,
and it leads to cleaner code.
If you extract logic like that,
and don't put it into your JSX code,
but instead you create a separate helper variable
or a constant.
Something like month here
which simply holds that value.
And then here between your curly braces in the JSX code
you just point at that helper variable or a constant.
By doing it like this you keep your JSX code lean
and you have your more complex logic in the rest
of this function so that this overall is easier to read.
And now we can do something similar for the day
and the year.
For the day we can access props.date.toLocaleString en-US
and then here passing a configuration where we say
that we wanna format just the day
and output it in a two digit format.
And we can add a year helper constant
where we access props.date
and then actually just access get full year
which is another built-in method
which just extracts the year as a four digit number.
And now we can use these helper constants
to output their values like this in our JSX code.
And if we do that and save that file,
now we see the month,
the year and also the day in the month.
And that's the raw data which I wanna have here.
Now, of course, one crucial thing is missing
and that would be the styling.
But before we add that,
let's talk about splitting components.